CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Restivus

If you're thinking about making a contribution to this project, then you're in the right place.
First, thank you for taking the time to contribute! Please give everything below a read before
attempting to contribute, as it may save you some time and energy when it comes time to submit
your awesome new feature, fix, or bug report!

The following contributions to Restivus are greatly appreciated:
- Code (via pull requests of any variety)
  - New or updated features
  - Bug fixes
  - README updates
- Bug reports (via GitHub Issues)
- Feature requests and voting (via GitHub Issues)


## Code Contributions

Contributing code to an open source project can be fun and rewarding, especially when it's done
right. Check out the guidelines below for more information on getting your changes merged into a
release.


### Pull Requests

All pull requests should be made to the `dev` branch, unless **all** changes in the request are to
the README or CHANGELOG **and** all of those changes are already reflected in the latest released
version. If that's the case, the pull request should be made to `master`. If you're not familiar
with [forks](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) and [pull requests]
(https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/), please check out those resources for more
information.


### Committing

Limit commits to one related set of changes. If you’ve worked on several without committing, use
[`git add -p`](http://nuclearsquid.com/writings/git-add/) to break it up into multiple commits.

Try to start and finish one related set of changes in a commit. If your set of changes spans
multiple commits, use interactive rebase [`git rebase -i`]
(https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/git-rebase-i) to squash the commits
together.

### Commit Messages

Please follow these guidelines for commit messages:

1. Separate subject from body with a blank line
1. Limit the subject line to 50 characters
1. Capitalize the subject line
1. Do not end the subject line with a period
1. Use the imperative mood in the subject line
1. Wrap the body at 72 characters
1. Use the body to explain what and why vs. how
  - _Note: Rarely, only the subject line is necessary_

For a detailed explanation, please see [How to Write a Git Commit Message]
(http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/#seven-rules).


## Bug Reports

Please file all bug reports, no matter how big or small, as [GitHub Issues]
(https://github.com/kahmali/meteor-restivus/issues). Please provide details, and, if possible,
include steps to reproduce the bug, a sample GitHub repo with the bug reproduced, or sample code.


## Feature Requests

Restivus is still a work in progress. Feature requests are welcome, and can be created and voted on
using [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/kahmali/meteor-restivus/issues)!

Commit message:

Update contribution guidelines
- Change the pull request submission workflow so all requests are
  submitted on the dev branch (previous workflow would cause
  history-syncing issues with downstream repos)
- Add a few more guidelines to submitting pull requests

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Restivus

If you're thinking about making a contribution to this project, then you're in the right place.
First, thank you for taking the time to contribute! Please give everything below a read before
attempting to contribute, as it may save you some time and energy when it comes time to submit
your awesome new feature, fix, or bug report!

The following contributions to Restivus are greatly appreciated:
- Code (via pull requests of any variety)
  - New or updated features
  - Bug fixes
  - README updates
- Bug reports (via GitHub Issues)
- Feature requests and voting (via GitHub Issues)


## Code Contributions

Contributing code to an open source project can be fun and rewarding, especially when it's done
right. Check out the guidelines below for more information on getting your changes merged into a
release.


### Pull Requests

All code contributions can be submitted via GitHub Pull Requests. Here are a few guidelines you
must adhere to when contributing to this project:

1. **All pull requests should be made to the `dev` branch!** Since `dev` is not the default branch,
   you'll need to be sure to change it when making the pull request. If you're not familiar with
   [forks](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) and [pull requests]
   (https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/), please check out those resources for
   more information.
1. Begin your feature branches from the latest version of `dev`.
1. Before submitting a pull request:
   - Rebase to the latest version of `dev`
   - Ensure all automated tests are passing by running `meteor test-packages ./` from the root
      directory of the project and viewing the Tinytest output at `http://localhost:3000`

### Committing

Limit commits to one related set of changes. If you’ve worked on several without committing, use
[`git add -p`](http://nuclearsquid.com/writings/git-add/) to break it up into multiple commits.

Try to start and finish one related set of changes in a commit. If your set of changes spans
multiple commits, use interactive rebase [`git rebase -i`]
(https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/git-rebase-i) to squash the commits
together.

### Commit Messages

Please follow these guidelines for commit messages:

1. Separate subject from body with a blank line
1. Limit the subject line to 50 characters
1. Capitalize the subject line
1. Do not end the subject line with a period
1. Use the imperative mood in the subject line
1. Wrap the body at 72 characters
1. Use the body to explain what and why vs. how
  - _Note: Rarely, only the subject line is necessary_

For a detailed explanation, please see [How to Write a Git Commit Message]
(http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/#seven-rules).


## Bug Reports

Please file all bug reports, no matter how big or small, as [GitHub Issues]
(https://github.com/kahmali/meteor-restivus/issues). Please provide details, and, if possible,
include steps to reproduce the bug, a sample GitHub repo with the bug reproduced, or sample code.


## Feature Requests

Restivus is still a work in progress. Feature requests are welcome, and can be created and voted on
using [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/kahmali/meteor-restivus/issues)!
